Any of you have used, uh, Microsoft Whiteboard?
Yes, sir. Okay, just a second just
to help me to set up this.
So which one should
I from here?
So I've used the download version,
so you can just click on the new whiteboard and then,
Then which version?
Uh, you can start with the blank Converser.
Uh, on the right side top, it's there on the, on the box.
Start with blank Canvas.
Right Top This one.
Start with blank. Yes sir. Yes sir.
Okay, so now I can go ahead and write?
Yes sir.
Okay. Let me just write something
here, do the topics.
Okay, fine.
Okay, good. Thank you.
Now how can I do this?
My name is not showing right here. I just rename.
Okay, so now I just need to dis uh,
put this into, okay, fine.
Now this in the background. So
how can I make this into background now?
Yeah. Okay, here, hide floating control. Okay, fine.
Okay, so I hope most of you have joined.
How many have joined till now?
27 sir.
Okay, so let us start almost time is six 20, um, six 30.
Okay, so today's topic is from today onward.
We'll be getting into, let me write
down the background here.
How to erase this. Erase this.
What is the
This is the, no.
Oh, no. So that's not
the here.
I think this is the, no, this one
I think under, you'll have to do yes.
This one, no.
And undo.
Yes sir. We need to select it and do and do.
But uh, okay. This let us know. Okay.
So to today's topic is model free.
I mean to downward the topic is model
free reinforcement learning.
So it has, uh,
model three means you don't have any
knowledge about the environment.
You don't know what is the transition probability from one
state to the neighboring state.
You don't have any like in case of uh, frozen lake problem,
we have a knowledge about the environment
that if I am at a state of one, I can go to,
if I take a left hand side movement, I can be any state
which is just left of me with 0.3 priority
or which is just upside of me.
0.33 priority and downside of me 0.33 priority, like that.
This knowledge is not available to you.
So you know only that there is a greed available to you.
You are starting from any particular state.
Your objective is to
maximize your expected discounted reward,
whether you are able to reach your final state
and that is the goal.
State or not, it is depending on the trajectory.
Trajectory means. Okay, let me write down
what is called trajectory also.
So what is experience?
So experience is
it is a topple of current state
action at the, so T here T is your
uh, suffix, okay?
ST means state at the time of T
action taken when you are in the state of st, okay,
state action and then reward and the time of T
and then next state, that is your
T plus one.
So state action reward state.
So this, the next state is T plus one means at you have
taken one decision.
So one time step has elapsed.
So you are now having the time has gone to T plus one at
that point of time, which state you are belonging to.
So capital A stands for your set of all possible state.
Okay? So you are basically capital A
for the g grided problem.
0, 1, 2, 3, up to 15. Number of states are there.
You will be in any one of the 15 state
as time T goes on time, T is basically, so this is the top.
So time T will be starting from zero.
It'll be ending up theoretically infinity,
but there is a upper limit value,
which is very large value theoretically is infinity.
So it means that you are taking a decision at the time of T.
So you are taking sequential decision
and there is a upper limit value, let's say
around 10,000 or something.
So you are allowed to take 10,000 number of decision,
but you will be into one of these finite state only.
This G grid only, you are not, your state space is
not in finite, although your time
over which you are taking a decision
and can be flowing through infinity also.
Okay? So that is what we mean to say.
So ST means at time of tea in which state you are belonging
to, what is the action you have taken on
that particular instant?
What is the reward you have drawn?
Reward is one step reward.
Okay, and what is the next state you are landing into?
So this is called experience.
Then what is called trajectory,
okay?
So trajectory is set off
experience,
right?
So you are allowed to draw as many as experience
as your time is elapsing from 0 1, 2, 3.
It is like that you're allowed to take.
So all of those experience bound
together is called the trajectory.
If you meet the final goal state here,
that is your 15th state, this is your goal state.
If you're landing into the goal state, then
one trajectory has ended, you restart your game again.
So you are drawing another experience, okay?
If you have not met your goal state, you are going to take
uh, the number of decision allowed
by the upper limit value of infinity.
Okay? The infinity has the upper limit value.
So that is called trajectory. What is our objective here?
In case of model free model free model based for anything,
um, for a reinforcement learning, the objective is to
maximize your expected sum of discounted reward.
Okay? So maximization of
expected sum of discounted reward.
What is the sum of discounted reward?
It is written like this sum of discounted reward.
So gamma to the power T reward is
this one, okay?
T is from zero to infinity.
Okay? So this is the job every time we do
this is a general objective function maximization
of expected sum of discounted reward
and this ion is happening
overall possible policy, okay?
You you like, uh, you have already seen
for model-based algorithm for last few, like last one month,
we have been doing model-based problem
that are called MDP markup vision process.
In that case, we have been
provided with all the transition
function related is already known to us, okay?
So in that case also we have done it
by using value ation policy ation, even for that also
that objective function is same.
That is maximization of this
and this maximize is going
to happen over all possible policy.
That means you start with any random policy,
you evaluate the policy, you do a policy improvement,
you get a new policy, again, you evaluate the policy
at every evaluation of new, new, new policy,
you are improving your state value function.
That is v state value function.
V of is i
si stands for where I is basically 0 1, 2, 3, up to 15.
Okay? At every new policy you get
your value function computed
for every state this is going to be increasing.
So you are basically finding out this maximizing over
all possible policy.
So that is what is the main objective we do
for doing this objective we have defined
value function, okay?
So value function definition is value
for the state of A.
So this state of A is a smallest, okay?
That means if I start the game from the state of smallest,
then what is the value for me
to start the game from the smallest state?
Okay? So this one is retaining like this.
So okay,
maximizing is not required right now too.
There should be erase out here.
I am doing some mistakes sometime back also for
that I am not having any handle here to erase it.
So your value function is basically
expected sum of discounted reward, okay?
This T is equal to zero two infinity drama to the body.
Uh, T given that you have
started your game,
T is basically small s this is your value
function, okay?
Look at this. One is your objective that you want
to do over all possible policy,
but to start with we are not going to assume.
So whenever we're doing maximum over this all possible
policy, we are going to achieve a optimal value function.
But whereas this one, this is called just a value function.
Okay? So if I don't do this maximizing overall possible
policy, if I just keep this part alone,
this is called value function, okay?
So there are two things to be understood.
One is called optimal value function,
another one is called normal,
just a hello function and their differences.
This is called V start
of A, okay?
This, this one. So V start means anything V
as star means it is a optimal function, okay?
If you don't have any start, that means it is a normal case.
So overall possible policy,
whenever you're finding out the maximization
of this quantity, and
whenever we say it is value function computed at a state
of ace, that means you are interested to find this quantity
whenever your game is starting at the state of is
this part, this is a given.
This bar, vertical bar means condition on the fact
that your game is starting at the time of T
you are starting from the state of smallest
and for this particular state only you are interested
to find out what is the optimal value function
and t is equal to a
where T is initialized from zero to infinity.
Okay? So this is the value function.
Next, optimal value function expression.
This is the value function expression. Okay?
So this is the already thing.
You have done it we'll be ly encountering this
and there are a lot of, uh, is there where to go
to next page or I have to go just drag.
I want to, do you wanna
Go to next screen?
Uh, yes. Uh, actually you can move it um,
with your touch pad on laptop.
You can just scroll up.
You can select somewhere in the empty space
and uh, just go to the right or bottom and you can, yeah,
Okay.
Okay. So, so for model three
we have four methods.
Model three,
The first method is called Monte Carlo.
Okay? Second method is called TD learning.
It is called temporal deference learning. Okay?
Third method is called multi
learning Q learning.
Fourth method is called deep Q learning.
We, we will be cohorting everything in this
course, okay?
There are four ways to do that in TD learning.
There are various variation.
One is there are multiple variation.
One is called we start with TD zero.
TD zero means the time argument is zero.
Then next one is called TD one, like that TD end
that is this in the bracket, N stands
for N can be 0, 1, 2, 3, anything.
This n stands for the time instant in the future, okay?
And coming, uh, combining all of them.
This is called TD Lambda learning.
This has been invented, uh, 1920 itself.
Long time back Monte Carlo destination.
This has been invented somewhere in 1940s.
Q learning 19, uh,
sixties onward.
Okay? Then deep fuel learning is
after deep learning has came up, the first application of
it has been originate.
I mean the deep queue learning has been started.
Experimentation from 2010 onward.
But the first successful application of Deep Q learning
to solve a AI game, that game is called Atari Game
Game in 2013.
It has been solved by using Deep Q learning from Google
DeepMind and uh,
after the success of this Atari game using Deep Q learning
the same team, okay?
The same team they have from Google DeepMind,
they have joined into OpenAI mainly.
Uh, those people like John School, man, Peter Abel,
David Sil, all of these are pioneer
of deep learning and they're not.
They're within the age of 40, 40, 41, 42 like that.
These people, they have came up with the idea called
PPO algorithm, which has been implemented by Google,
uh, OpenAI in 2021.
The first application of PPO in the language model was in
chat GPT, okay?
This extension of this from here only,
and that has revolutionized the LLM part till now all
of these Google DeepMind people,
they have been heavily invested on the time on bot model BRT
model and they thought that transformer has,
transformer has actually innovated from Google DeepMind only
that the famous paper attention is all you need.
But that paper did not have anything training involving
with reinforcement learning where these people, they,
after seeing the success of bot model from transformer,
they came up with PP algorithm from they joined the open ai,
they revolutionized the whole field.
Now, almost all of the white, I mean LLM has
become success because of application
of reinforcement learning,
deep reinforcement learning into language model
and that is also a big barrier
for training it any normal system.
Okay, so we'll start with now Monte Carlo
and TD learning, we,
in our course we'll be finishing up with DQ learning.
If time is there, I will try to touch you up on, um,
policy gradient that will PPO came from a
theorem called policy gradient.
If time is there, we'll get into that, okay?
Okay, so, so I have given the name
of the professors from whom I am being inspired
for making this PPT.
You can go through their lectures.
It is available in YouTube if you have time.
Okay, so, uh, what is
Billman equation or we call it as a billman equation update
for estimating our value function.
Okay? So we require that thing.
So we know that our objective is
to look at this value function, ex expression here.
This one, this one I already wrote here.
I have already wrote it here.
Okay, look at here, I have already wrote it here.
This is our objective
to estimate the value function, okay?
Now if you take this expression
and just split the submission, so T to zero
to infinity split the sum, put T to zero, you get R zero
plus T to one, two infinity remaining as it is here, okay?
T is equal to one, two infinity remaining as it is,
and now you have got into a new state called a desk.
That means one time has elapsed.
So you have taken one decision, you have landed up
to new state called a desk at what time it is on the time
of a, I mean it is time of one.
So we call it S one.
S zero is basically you started your game.
S one is after one timestamp, you have got into a new state.
We denoted by a variable called S one,
but the value of the variable is S desk here, okay?
With that you can again write this same thing.
Actually this is, I'm going to explain it.
For many of you may feel it is boring.
I mean it may be not easily
understood by everyone, but still is regard
because beman is the one of the most important contribution
in this field has happened
because of Billman, Richard Bellman, those of you
who have remember dynamic programming algorithm in the
algorithm theory, there are two ways
to solve any kind of algorithm.
One is greedy and another kind dynamic programming.
Billman is the person who invented dynamic
programming, okay?
And it has a huge, uh, the innovation
of dynamic programming came from this theor only.
That is value function estimation. Okay?
So coming back here, so you're expressing,
you just split it up this submission,
you got this expectation now.
Now look at here, expectation operator appli applied on
this particular quantity, okay?
So expectation of R zero, R zero is a value,
it is a single value, scaler value.
So expectation means average.
Average of a constant value is again the same constant,
so odd zero will remain the same,
but expectation for this thing,
this is called the value function for the new state of isde.
Okay? So I just write it here for your reference.
So what we're saying here is the definition
of value function is
expectation of R zero
plus gamma.
Um, this comma has to be not
T times step one onward gaa, this followed
by rt, given that S one is equal
to S desk, okay?
This is what we have, we are here at, okay,
so from here, this is the expectation operator.
So this expectation
of R zero is basically same.
You can write them here plus expectation
of this T equal 2 1 2
infinity gamma power of this rt.
This is a test. Now what is this part?
This part,
this part is nothing but look at value function,
opt end at the state of ace is this thing, okay?
And for this, it is nothing but value function, okay?
At the state of S dash, no, the state of S dash
provided that I start the game,
I start the game from the S desk, okay?
Still, now it is saying that one time has elapsed, so I have
to take into account of starting the game from the S desk.
For that I just apply tweak. Actually I'm not applying.
This is the theorem beman had invented for explanation.
I only telling like that this gamma one
I am taking it out.
Then here it becomes gamma to the T minus one here, right?
This submission T is equal to one, two infinity gamma
to the part T minus of one, okay?
Then R of T
or is one of is test.
So here this T minus of one you can consider this two minus
of one is zero here.
So now you are able to reset your game
from the state of S test.
Okay? So now you can say that this expression can be reduced
to this expectation of odd zero agreement
as it is this plus gamma.
This one is nothing but your value function obtained at the
state of ACE test.
Okay? So recursively you, if I want
to compute the value for the state of ace,
I need the value for the next date.
So recursive computation, okay, so we are falling back
to the same thing last in the case of model based
like in value at policy attrition also.
So that is what is based here.
So we are reducing these two value function optin
for the SD, this is called billman equation.
The relation between the value function
between two consecutive state, okay?
In other way, if you remember from your model-based
learning, this can be written in this
manner, okay?
Just to keep you uh, properly
with your model-based learning, we can just consider
here I'm only involving pie of a here,
this pie of ace means what?
At the state of ace, what is my policy?
So policy means mapping from state to action.
So pie of ace is basically one of the actions
that you can take it in the state of ace.
So that this thing
and this thing, it has no difference in the meaning.
Only thing I have replaced this bio face with a, okay,
so this till unit one, we have been heavily dealing
with this expression, okay?
But this knowledge is not known to us in case
of model free learning.
That means the probability
of getting into a new state is desk from the
current state of ace.
Okay? So this is unknown to us.
That is why we will not be able to write this expression
for our model free learning algorithm.
Okay? So you have seen already all those, uh, your,
uh, do I have it here?
Uh, no.
This dictionary I have written already, right?
So under state of ace, if you take action a,
you may get into any one of those next possible states.
This knowledge is not available to us in case
of model free reinforcement learning.
Okay? So we are going to take the help of estimation
how to do that now.
So the estimation is basically let me,
before getting into Q function
and all, let me go into
what is called montecarlo estimation.
So here is a Montecarlo estimation, okay?
So look at Montecarlo estimation, what does it say?
Since we don't have any knowledge about the next state
transition probability, what we do is we take a whole
projectile till we reach the end of the game.
Either I may reach to the desired goal state
or if I do not reach the desired goal state
when my upper limit of trial is over, my game is stopped at
that point of time, if I have reached
that desired goal state, my reward is going to be one else,
my reward is going to be remaining zero.
Okay? So the reward is basically
over one episode.
The reward is basically do the submission for
every new state transition that you do.
So normally we don't have any reward
whenever we are landing into intermediate state only when we
get into the final goal state, we get a reward of one.
So this reward you are taking
for if I write it, it'll become like this.
So your reward sigma means
sum of all the reward, okay?
So this is basically gamma reward.
For every times step you have taken, T is equal
to zero two infinity.
So if you split them up, so R zero, this is
for only one particular episode, okay?
R zero plus gamma
gamma R one, like that
gamma square or two like that, it'll go on,
it'll end up at gamma.
Let's say you have ended up at gamma
and then rn, okay?
This den is the upper limit of your trial.
Once your trial is over after n number of attempt, okay?
RN can be one
or zero, okay?
But it has been multiplied by gamma is basically,
let's say it is 0.9.
So 0.9 to the part of n in be, we can keep it anything
as per your experiment.
Okay? So the final reward of one, if you're getting,
it'll be multiplied by very small quantity come up out of N.
So that is the only thing that you can draw
as your R sigma, okay?
Uh, use that r sigma
and then you compute your value function.
So how you're writing a value function.
So we knew
for the
ST estimates the value function to be computed at the state
of at the state where you are deciding at a time
of t st.
This one will be drawn, written like this old
of st again,
remember ST means the state in which you are at the time
of T, okay?
T is flowing from zero to infinity.
Only thing is your notations are quite defined from the
model based, like in case of MDB in the unit one.
Okay? Here, this multiplied by you are taking a number of
decision to be taken, okay?
So divide by one by n then R sigma
minus v old of
T, this is ending.
This formula is known as Monte Carlo estimate of your
model based reinforcement learning.
What is a physical meaning?
The physical meaning is I want to update my value function,
estimate and below function estimation.
Okay? So V of st I'm going to update.
So for that, once I update, I'll be landing into a new value
of the state called st.
This is denoted as v new st. Okay?
So this is the update and how this application is happening.
So on the right hand side,
so this is assignment operator, okay?
So this is an assignment that means your new function,
new value function is computed in this manner
that you take the old estimate
update by a small quantity.
This is called update quantity update by a small quantity.
What is that quantity? So quantity is basically
for every state you can write your value function
to be in this manner for every state,
this is your expression for every state,
this is your expression, okay?
For every state you are going to get from that expression.
If that estimation is a correct estimation,
then it'll be exactly equal with r sigma, okay?
If that estimation is not a correct estimation,
that means you have some error
and the error quantities r sigma minus of this part.
So that is your error if you take that error into account,
divide by one by N, yeah.
Hello? Hello? Yeah. Hello?
Hello,
hello?
Hello?
I think someone mic was open sir.
Okay, so are you able to see the dashboard, um, whiteboard
because you're trying to connect?
Yes sir. Yes sir. It's visible.
Okay. Okay, fine.
So just like your machine learning algorithm,
we are updating every parameter by the help
of some kind of, uh, gradient,
istic, gradient descent and all.
Okay? So here also it is having a, a kind
of analogous meaning here.
So here you're not going to apply any gradient,
you're not going to apply any delivery operator, okay?
What we're applying here is we in every state, we are going
to estimate our value, okay?
So we want to estimate value
for every state is okay?
This is nothing but your expected sum
of discounted reward given
that you are starting your game from s for every state,
it is written like this, okay?
This one, this value is going to be
equal with this quantity.
If your value estimation is perfect,
if it is not a perfect, there is some error.
That error quantity only this much, okay?
Now what you do is you divide this error quantity
by total number of decision you have taken
to reach your final goal.
Your final goal, maybe goal state
or you may be handling landing into some kind
of intermediate step, okay?
After taking in number of decision, so
after taking in number of decision, so it does divide it
by end, this is called aging quantity, okay?
This is how we are updating it.
So we don't have so much of complicated
relation just like in our unit one
because we don't have any knowledge about our
uh, environment.
So we take a simplistic measure
to compute our value function estimation by the this,
this method is called Monica estimation, okay?
So one of the uh, difficulty
for Monte estimation is you have to
roll out one single trajectory, okay?
Your trajectory means set of all experience.
That means you are gonna take any number of decision
that is called one trajectory.
You after finishing up of any number of decision,
you just have the knowledge about whether you have reached
your desired goal state or not.
You have reached the goal state, you get the reward
of one, okay?
That reward you will have to multiply with gamma part of N
and raised all the reward at zero here.
So that is your R sigma, right?
So that is your R sigma, that r sigma minus
of your any initial value that you have considered.
So we are going to initialize for all the state this v hold
of ST to zero only.
Okay? Then take this difference divide
by end and update that to the previous value.
Previous value was zero here.
So zero plus of some very small
positive quantity that we get.
That is our new estimate for that particular state.
So like that for every state will be computing this
and then this value function is keep on increasing,
increasing at some point of time,
there will no more increment of the value function than the
then the ion is stopping.
That is what convergence criteria.
So it is called multicolor estimate. Okay?
So let me go back to the P here.
So this is what I have written it here.
V, old V new sk. We look at here.
V knew I have written st here instead of sk.
This is what is written here. Okay?
Now you already know something called Q function, right?
Q function is basically having committed
to a particular action at a particular state.
The value of taking that action is called Q function.
So the Q function can also be up updated
by using the same trick.
The trick is called you measure your error, divide
that error by total number of decision that you have taken,
okay, and update that with the old value.
Okay? Now look at when are you going to uh, see
that your algorithm has converged.
That means just q, new q new or venue.
Anything, anything you look at, anything person you look at.
So this V knew
and V hold are going to be different
only when this error is a positive
error, okay?
There is no question of having a negative error here, okay?
Because we are going to get
intermediate status having zero reward only.
The last state is having a positive reward of one.
So, and this V hold is initialized to zero, okay?
So we are not going to have any negative reward.
This update quantity is not going
to be negative at any point of time.
So if this is a non-zero quantity,
your V new is going to be different than V old.
When this becomes
after a long time of isolation, when this r sigma
and V old becomes equal at that point of time, your V new
and v old are going to be equal, okay?
So this v new is basically your updated value.
Whenever we have completed one ation, this v new is going
to be reassigned to V old
and then you update another new thing.
This is how we go on, I'll show you the program later on.
Okay? So this is the basic pillar
of your Monte estimation Here.
It says every single step you took to victory
or defeat is equally important.
So that means suppose you are rolling
out a chase game, okay?
Actually this, uh, deep,
deep Q learning has came up from this uh,
t learning learning algorithm.
I will show you that, uh, what I want
to say is chase game by ai.
This can also be solved using deep Q learning mechanism.
It'll take long time to train the model, okay?
But, uh, chase game has been solved
by using deep Q learning also.
Okay, so why did I say that actually?
Because I wanted to emphasize this language,
this line, every step you took to victory
or defeat is equally important.
So let's say you are playing a chase game. In a chase game.
Let's say you have taken, if you are
not a expert player, let's say you have taken 300, uh,
300 steps to defeat your
either defeat or you get defeated by your partner, okay?
So you in the middle of the game,
let's say you have taken a brilliant step,
but at the end of game you have taken a blunt step,
but the, for the brilliant step,
whatever reward you are supposed to get, okay?
Mean reward means the brilliant step will take you to the
uh, to take you to your victory much quicker.
But in after taking billion step in the middle,
you have taken uh, not in the middle.
At the end of your game, you have taken a blunt step
that has resulted to defeat.
So the, the Montecarlo estimation, one
of the biggest drawback from Montecarlo estimation is it'll
apply a weight on every step that you have taken
throughout your trajectory equally.
And that weight value is one by in, as I told you this one
by in basically your weighting quantity.
This is your error quantity, this error you are divide
by your dividing by in, okay?
So that is one of the biggest drawback
for Monte Carlo TD learning.
They try to overcome this drawback
and uh, actually Monte Carlo estimation
is one of the biggest benefit.
It has no bias. Even though it is like you have taken an
intelligent step, it'll wait that inte step by one by end
you have taken a blunt step.
It'll wait that inline step by again one by end.
So it is not applying any bias on
any step that you have taken.
Okay? Now what is called TD learning? TD learning.
TD learning is basically instead of waiting
for the whole projectile to end, projectile means you are
uh, either meeting the upper limit of number of decision
to be taken or you have reached the goal state within the
upper limit of your number of decision.
Instead of waiting for the projectile to end.
TD learning applies one trick.
That is after taking one step,
it'll allow you to update your value function.
That is what it's called TD learning mechanism.
I will state it again what I have told you.
Our objective here is to update our value function
or queue function every time.
Okay? Our value function definition is value
function for the state of SK is given here.
Value function means expected sum
of discounted reward, okay?
And from the billman billman equation, you know that
value function optin at the state of SK
can be computed by the value function.
Optin at the state of SK plus one K
and k plus one are the two consecutive states
by taking one decision at every time step, okay?
So if you know the value function for the next step,
you can reuse that value, multiply that with gamma add
with the reward that you have opt
for one single transition for, okay?
Use that as your your sample.
So look at this expectation operator, we are going
to drop in case of temporal defense learning.
So what I am saying, instead of finding out for all possible
action that I can think of under my policy,
I just take only one action I get into next date.
I take that as one sample as representation
of my expectation.
Expect means your average value, okay?
Instead of taking average value, I take only one sample
and I use that sample to update my value function.
So look at here this language, treat the single sample
you get as representative of the distribution.
It's very important language. What is your distribution?
Basically distribution means you take into account
of multiple sample, then you find out
what is the mean means average
and what is there standard deviation, okay?
Instead of thinking about all this thing,
you just take only one sample
and then you update your value function.
So you take one single sample as a representative
of your distribution
and apply an incremental update to reduce billman error.
So your sample is basically the
one step transition reward.
So currently you're in a state of A,
you have taken a action, it is pie of a,
you have landed up into the next state called a dash, okay?
And the a dash state.
You have already computed this value, okay?
Use that as your experience
to update your value function.
So your value function objection remains
the same expression here.
Look at here till now, in case
of Monica estimate we have been writing R Sigma here.
R sigma means you are completing the whole projectile.
Go to the end of your game, see
what is the reward you are getting.
Divide that reward, I mean not divide.
Take that reward, subtract with the current value function,
divide that with N.
That is your aion quantity.
But here in this case, you don't wait for end of the game,
you just take one single transition, go
to the next state called SK plus one.
At that state, you have already
computed the previous estimate.
That is why it is called V old.
So previous estimate of your value function, use
that estimate, multiply that with gamma, okay?
Take this value RK plus this thing.
Take subtraction from the current testing.
That is your view, old of sk and multiply that with alpha.
Alpha is something learning quantity less than one.
It is between zero and one.
This alpha update that
with your old function you get a new estimate
for your value function.
That is all td zero learning.
Zero means you have taken only one decision.
Sir, right hand side should be escape plus one.
No, I mean,
or we knew SK is equal to be old sk,
we still at the state SK is it
Here you are talking No right hand side sir.
Sorry, left hand side. Left hand side, sir.
Oh, left hand side. This one, okay,
no, it'll not be like that.
That is why I will come across many time
I reexplain this why I'm writing this.
Yeah. So because this expression has both SK
and SK plus one, so mm-hmm
Mm-hmm I write it like this.
Look at in case of our traditional unit one knowledge,
what we have been doing, we have been writing V of
K plus one here, right?
For the state of A, this K stands for number of iteration
you are going through to update your value here.
Okay? So I just write it here.
So it was like this value function for this was
pie of A given A.
Then this is OA,
this is O a's test.
Actually many of you'll be having a question
that why I'm repeatedly writing so much
of expression and all what is the use of all this thing.
I will show you after finishing up of pure learning
and all what is a use case in language modeling, okay?
It has taken 70 years for reinforcement learning
to be applied into language model
and many of you, those who are from industry,
they always say what is the use
of all this learning and all?
So do not be in a hurry. Okay?
So this is what our usual notation here. Thisk means
value function for the state of at the iteration of
at iteration, at key iteration.
The value for
state of is okay here.
Now we are going to write it in a defined manner.
Here we are going to update this
like this value for the
new estimate for the state of sk.
This SK is one state from where you are starting your game.
Here also you are starting your game from state of A. Okay?
Now for doing this, you are doing this assignment operator,
you, you are updating your estimate, okay?
So you have initialized your old estimate with zero old
for the same state.
So this is your old estimate.
You want to arrive to your new estimate, okay?
How we are going to do, if you do some update
of new knowledge, okay?
So the knowledge is basically coming from this quantity
that is alpha is a learning rate alpha multiplied by
in case of uh, Montecarlo, we write here R Sigma
minus of V, old of
is, this is for Monte Carlo estimate, okay?
For Monte Carlo alpha is one by end in case of TD learning,
in case of TD learning, this will be
old actually, what is our objective is
to estimate the value for a state called sk.
Okay? This SK can be a state from zero to 15,
anything within your grid, okay?
For every state it is applicable this relation.
So I'm updating the estimation of the state of SK
by some knowledge that I'm gaining
after completing one experiment.
This is called Monte Carlo mc.
If I complete one experiment, that means one episode.
If I complete, I am going to get this value that is R sigma.
Whereas TD learning, they do not wait for completion
of a episode.
What it does, RK, that is the
immediate reward you have obtained for taking one single
decision, okay?
So you have taken one single decision,
you are getting into a new state.
That new state, whenever you are getting, you have
to multiply that with a discount of your
discount factor here.
Then you have a value function available for it
for the new state called SK plus one.
Because this SK plus one stands for you have taken one
decision while you have started your game from sk.
So one decision means k plus one
is your index in your number of decision, okay?
So this one is your old estimate,
old estimate of this, this minus of this will remain same
as it is this was your old
estimate or sk.
You have to take help of the next state value,
which is called
value at next step.
Next step value at next state. Okay?
This one, so what does it mean physically?
So now you have got it why I'm adding it here like that
Ruby, Ruby Ner, right?
She asked me,
Hello? Yes sir.
Okay? Again, next day we'll have difficulty understanding
that I know because not it for BTech student, those
who are in for your academic, for them it is difficult
for you, it is going to be difficult.
I know that. So do not be hesitating for that. Okay?
So I'm just going to tell you the physical meaning of this.
The physical meaning is, let's say you are at the state
of SK just writing it here.
Like let's say this is your G grid word.
This is agreed word, okay? It has,
let's say you are in the state of here,
this is your SK right now, okay?
You are interested to find out value function optin.
When I'm the state of here,
this is
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, like that.
It is. So when I am here, I want to find out
what is my value for remaining in this state.
If I start my game from the state of one,
TT learning says that you take a random action, go
to next state.
That is SK plus one is on next date.
So your next date can be this state, it can be this state,
it can be this state, okay?
And right now you come out of your knowledge about that.
I want to move this side.
I'll be really getting into this state
with 0.33 probability, 0.33 probability,
or I may be landing up
to this state called 0.33 probability,
or I may be landing up to this state called 0.3.
So this thing is no longer applicable Here.
Here it says that we don't have any knowledge about our
uh, environment.
Okay? So what we do, we take a random action,
get into next state from the next state.
Again, we take a random action, get into next state like
that if I do a trajectory
completion, okay?
So that the trajectory is basically consisting
of state action, state action, state action, okay?
So I just draw random sample from every state.
So that is called one trajectory I consider for all those
random action for each and every state to be one policy.
So one policy is basically for every
e probability of a given a for
all the as, okay?
This is called policy. I just draw a random policy.
I can use that policy to find out my value function here.
Okay? That is what we are going to do it here in the case
of TD learning.
So what is the physical meaning of this?
TD learning is basically, I go back here.
Let's say I'm in a state of one here.
So my SK is basically one, okay?
So at that point of time value function,
for one I write it.
We knew, we knew for the state of one is going
to be computed like this.
Use the old estimate of the state of one plus
alpha, something less than zero.
I mean it's between zero and one.
This the immediate reward that you have taken
from the state of one that is R one
plus gamma multiplied by value,
obtain as per the old estimate of the next date.
Your next date can be two, five or zero. Okay?
So let's say you have landed up into state of two,
you are not going to consider for all possible,
for all possible next date, okay?
Like in case of our um,
unit one knowledge we have considered here
for all possible cases, okay?
This is, we are not going to apply it here.
So we are going to consider only one sample, this
minus your previous estimate.
That is old estimate of the state
of one rosa bracket.
Okay? So this is your, this says that actually
if we don't have any knowledge while I am in the state
of one, I don't have any knowledge of my full environment,
neither I have full knowledge when I'm in a state
of two also, but I believe that well I am in a state of one.
If I take one decision, I go to any other next state,
any other next state, not particular two, okay?
It can be five, it can be zero.
Also, my belief is something that if I take one
decision and go to next state,
that state might have a better view of the end
of the game than my current state.
That is the whole feeling here, okay?
So it is like this, you can consider
that you are a human being.
You are exploring your unknown world.
So instead of not doing anything, you take one action,
you take one action, you are getting to a next possible uh,
state al you are, you are, you are exploding your world into
a big, uh,
like big cave.
Like if you suppose you have gone to ata, el
or any other big cave, okay?
There are a lot of rooms.
You don't know which room will have a exit path near
to that room.
You don't know it. So instead of living
in a particular room, not taking any decision rather than
that, you take one action
and then you go, you are believing that
that room might be having a better path to the exit path.
So you use that uh, belief
and then you update your old estimate.
It may happen that your belief is landing you into a much
more difficult world.
So you experience, you are gaining experience that
the new room that you have chosen in this manner
is not the good room to be explored in my next trial.
Okay? And that is how this agent explores the world.
So it'll take multiple random sample
for every sample it is going to remember his old estimate
and then it'll keep on updating its old estimate.
It'll take long time for you to understand.
That's the next week. I will show you the program
involving this thing.
Okay?
Do you have any other question?
Time is seven 30 almost.
I'll download it. I'll share it to
You. This one,
is it from the same Gring book or somewhere else?
No, no, it is from the gring book only.
I will share you my PPT,
this p pt I have, I will share it to you.
Let me, uh, this PPT will be remaining constant
for next four, five days of lecture.
Let me download this, how to download this dashboard
and just share it to you.
Share
group name, but there's no way
to uh, download it.
Uh, I think you can click on the share
and use that copy link.
There was something.
Copy link means I have to provide a email id.
No, no. Below below sir.
Yeah, on the button there's a copy link. Yeah,
Copy link.
You can put it in the chat. Probably
The link is copied, but how can I download it? Uh,
Can you click on the down arrow next
to whiteboard? Uh, not here.
Just try copying this link on the chat. Let's see.
We can, if we can access it on the cloud,
Uh, you can go back and uh, download this one sir.
Here. Trying to reconnect changes.
Let me share. First of all,
I don't think sharing will work beyond it.
I mean the moment I close this session, right,
it'll not be okay. Send,
No, no, no. Uh, you
have to copy and paste the link
and we will check, uh, if the link works.
Yeah. Okay. You can paste in the chat.
Where is the chat word?
Third below. Just check in your zoom.
Zoom? Mm-hmm. Click on escape. Okay. Chat
download all of you right now
because the moment I close this session, right,
this will be not be available.
It is wanting our Microsoft accounts. Let's see. Yeah.
Um, It's doubtful. Let's see
You try, let me down.
Um, save it from here.
No, for me it didn't work
because the account domain named brand match
Access it, it needs a Microsoft account.
Yeah.
With the same domain as service.
So you go to the, go to the share sir.
Uh, once again and uh, click on that uh,
settings. Button on the share
Settings.
Go to the share. Yeah. Yeah. Export. Export, export.
Exactly sir. Export
As an image. Yes sir.
High resolution and export. High resolution, sir.
Export
You should have done in PDF.
Oh, this is only page by page. No, no,
No. Uh, that's
just the title of the whiteboard
Page. Operator. I
think it'll have everything.
One p and G file will have everything. Yeah.
No, not uh, yeah. Okay.
See Everything. Is there C
Is there?
Okay, I'm sending it to you right now.
This is uh, CT D one.
I will ask my T tier to upload it.
See one. Today's date is 17th.
Okay, I'll share from there,
Sir. And one more
question is in the exam, what kind
of questions will we get?
Sir? Can you give us a sample assessment?
I mean non-graded assignment,
This kind of, this kind of thing.
Only the internal meaning of this relation.
Some expression will be given whether this
is correct or wrong,
That we need an assignment.
Can the TA prepare one so that we can try?
Because otherwise we get heart attacks in the final exam.
Okay, fine. Okay.
So I'll give you one assignment, uh, for this kind of thing,
which will be coming as your exam pattern, okay?
Right. Thank you sir. Okay.
Actually, you do not take that much heavily
that cause you uh, that kind
Sir, last year, I mean last semester we
faced all types of attacks. That's why,
Uh, no, no, you don't worry about it
because as I've told you, uh, reinforcement learning, uh,
is having a lot of mathematical thing.
But I will not take you that way.
I will try to explain all the individual variable
thing and how they're related.
And you, your exam also to becoming like that only
do not be out of anything that
I'm not teaching you too many things.
I'm teaching very, very, right. So this quantity,
Yes, And I don't like to put burden on any people.
Those who are, I mean coming from
after a long time from their academia,
we share this now, actually I'll forget
And last semester, so we had a subject on maths.
It was very difficult. Ariel seems more difficult than that
Will be much more difficult than maths.
That is uh, okay, let me write the mail
because I have another class.
I forget it.
Yeah, you can drop, drop out, yeah. Yeah. Thank you sir.
Okay. Okay. See you on Sunday. I mean how Saturday, right?
Uh, so you'll will be coming to the merchant, sir,
campus merchant on Saturday.
Saturday.
Saturday class will be there, sir, for us,
No, no, no, no. Plus
not with the, because you have this thing, right?
Uh, okay. Campus visit there, right? Yeah. Okay.
What things I should do here? I have given and
Uh, those are class notes
and all we, we have to submit. Uh
Oh, yes. Yeah, you
submit, you submit by the due time.
It is open till Sunday.
So you submit submitted by Friday, Saturday,
or whatever time you have.
Okay, sir, on Sunday, Sunday there will be no quiz, right?
No, no quiz will be open from tonight itself.
Okay? You can attend it
before you come to the campus if you don't have time, okay?
Oh, okay sir, that's fine. That should be okay. Thank
You. So today I
didn't teach you anything on program side, right?
So it is fine. It's only these two things. Okay, fine.
Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yeah, thank you sir.
Thank you sir. Thank you sir.
Yeah, thank you sir. Thank you. Okay. You can quit.
No problem.